My family are Hungarian Jews.
Most of them were killed
in concentration camps.
That’s something
that the Holocaust took from me
—it took the concept of family.
I needed explanations.
I needed to know why my family was murdered.
It made me really search
at a very young age to see
if there was a real religion out there.
It was just a secular thing to be Jewish;
it was a cultural thing.
A friend of mine came up to me and said:
“I have to tell you something.
“I got this book
from one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
It is the most beautiful book
I have ever read.”
I said, “Oh, I’ll read it.”
And it couldn’t have been a week later
that I got a knock on my door, and there were
two young women at the door
who started to talk to me about the Bible.
Once I started having a study
on a regular basis with Carolyn,
I enjoyed it more and more.
One day my father was home.
He just screamed at them
and basically threw them out of the house.
It just progressed after that.
There was just no peace at any time
and a lot of tears.
And I just couldn’t understand
why they weren’t even asking me:
“Well, what is it
that you like about this religion?
“Who are these people?
Let us talk to—” No, nothing.
It was very, very hard.
Shortly after my baptism,
my mother came up to me, and she said:
“Your father and I are going out for the day.
You better not be here when we get home.”
I was 17 years old.
I didn’t know where I was going to go.
I didn’t know what I was going to do.
But I trusted in Jehovah.
And I picked up the phone,
and I called my Carolyn.
In what seemed like minutes,
there were brothers and sisters at the house.
They were putting my things into this truck
and bringing it over to Carolyn’s house.
And she said, “You can live with me.”
Before I was baptized,
I would drive back and forth
to school with a friend of mine.
Little by little,
I was telling him what I was learning.
He said: “You know,
I want to meet these people.
I have some questions.”
I had questions.
I asked them:
“Why do we die?,
Why do we grow old?,”
and so forth and so on.
And they went right to the Bible,
and when I left the house after that,
I said, “This is the truth!”
Growing up in my house,
going to church every Sunday
was something that you had to do.
But when I became a teenager,
then religion became less in my life,
and basketball became more.
Being a young man, you’d watch sports
and you’d see
that sports players made a lot of money.
My teachers would tell my parents:
“He’s going to be a good basketball player.
“Take care of him.
“He could be worth, you know,
several hundred thousand dollars
by the time he graduates.”
I received over 125 scholarships.
Now you’re talking about a free education
just because you can play basketball.
So I realized, you know,
at an early age that playing
professional basketball could mean a lot,
not only for me but for my family.
So as far as God was concerned,
I had a little interest in God
(like I would ask my mom questions),
but it wasn’t until Nancy
brought me to the Witnesses
that really something just kicked in.
I was studying,
and my mom was downstairs in the basement.
I heard her crying,
and I said, “What’s wrong?”
And she said, “I know you’re going to become
one of those Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
So realizing in my mind
that I’m not going to become
a basketball player
but that I’m going to become
one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
because that’s more important
—that affected me many, many times.
When others found out
that I was going to become
one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
people shied away.
People try to use you when they think
you can give them something
or you’re going to be somebody big.
By going the direction
of serving Jehovah completely,
you lost all the worldly people
that you thought were your friends.
And so that was
in one summer that I started
the study with Brother Crespo,
and in six months, I was baptized.
And then we decided to get married.
The scripture that says
that ‘even if my own father
and my mother would abandon me,’
that even ‘Jehovah would take me in,’
—it proved to be true in so many ways.
Once you become one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
you’re part of a family
that will do anything for you.
We’ve had adversity over the years,
but Jehovah never said
everything was going to be perfect.
What he says is
that when you face these problems,
you will not face them alone.
And Jehovah has never let us down
when it comes to that.